AWS Terms:

endpoint:
an endpoint is any device that is phyiscially an endpoint on a network.
It is represented by a URL. The url consists of the IP address or a hostname
representing the ip address.  This URL alows an api to gain access
to a resource.
 The endpoint needs an ip address that may or may not
be private or on a private network. the api is a set of protocols that allows
communicatoin between two systems.

subnet - a logical subdivision of an IP network.


API Gateway
A way to create an interface in which clients interact with resources.
ie' you can add a lambda functino to interact with
an s3 bucket, etc.  YOu can make an API private so that it can
only be accessed in a VPC.  the API will create a link so that the client
can use the link to access soem kind of resulting data with the interaction
between the two being the gateway.  However, API gateway does not
support a costume domain name for  a private API.  I don't know to the extent
that you can control the link name.  the endpoint, that is targed via the api,
is the resource or data. if it's private, you target a vpc endpoint.


Transit Gateway
a way connect vpc to abbvie on premise networks
on vpn you are on abbvienet (connected to the private network)
which is open to the aws vpc via a transit gateway

ENI
Elastic Network Interface.
a networking component in a vpc
represents nic.  includes a private ipv4 address and possibly
a 2nd IP address

NIC - nework interface card ( what is it once a physical card?)
serces as a gateway between a server (virutal or not) and the network.

ACL - access control list
list of permissions associated with an object.  an ACL (object) specifies which
users or system processes are granted access to objects


AWS VPC - Virtual Private Cloud

Open VPN - control access to stuff
VPC has a IPv4 address range.


network origin control -
origin -scheme, host and port of a URL
ie' document from origin: https://example.doc/doc tries to access he dom
of document retrieved from https://example.com/target.html. user agent will
disallow because the origin of first doc (http, example.com, 80) does not
match origin of 2nd (https, example.com , 443)


API - how components interact with each other.
IT does not represent the resource data or the database data.

REST api - get a state of the resource.
CRUD - 4 basics of persistant data //http resource data:
Create - post
Read - get
Update - put/patch
Delete - delete

can be used to get api resource data:
